LO Description Niveau Level Description General knowledge components Generic Dutch Knowledge Base Teacher education English, French, German, Spanish D Educational design level 3 The teacher collaborates with others to develop a contemporary learning arrangement with accompanying teaching materials. In doing so, they take into account at least the connection with the long-term objectives of the subject area and the completion of the full design cycle. The teacher makes a suitable choice from a broad, up-to-date didactic knowledge base and uses this to substantiate their actions. Learning processes and motivation A4 Meaningful learning (learning tracks, cohesive learning and learning in context)  Maintaining goals A6 Frameworks of reference (qualification files, core goals)  Educational Design A7 Evaluation methods educational design (PDCA-cycle) Various professions and fields in vocational education and qualification files Multilingualism     level 2 The teacher independently develops a contemporary lesson series with accompanying teaching materials and formulates appropriate and concrete learning objectives. In doing so, they take into account the connection with the objectives of the subject area and the completion of the full design cycle. The teacher applies up-to-date didactic knowledge and uses this to substantiate their actions. Maintaining goals A6 Taxonomies  Educational Design A7 Methodical design of learning arrangements (alignment, curricular spiderweb) Activating didactics Pentapie (Westhoff, 2008) Sub-skills Receptive and productive strategies affective objectives, communicative objectives, language and content/intercultural objectives     level 1 The teacher develops a contemporary lesson or learning activity with accompanying teaching materials and formulates appropriate and concrete learning objectives. In doing so, they take into account the entire design cycle. The teacher substantiates their choices. Maintaining goals A6 Function of learning goals, types of learning goals, formulating SMART Educational Design A7 Models of didactic analysis Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR) Communicative objectives I1 Learning processes and learning skills level 3 The teacher, in consultation with colleagues, guides the learner in acquiring subject matter and in developing learning skills, self-regulation and digital literacy. In doing so, they take into account at least the following: motivation, differentiated guidance, cross-curricular themes and social themes. The teacher makes a suitable choice from a broad, up-to-date didactic knowledge base and uses this to substantiate their actions. Guiding learning processes A5 Methods of differentiation  Views on learning and learning concepts A1 Learning theories and implications for eduaction English: CLIL content and language integrated learning, English for specific purposes  French: AIM, Delf, e-Twinning  Spanish: DELE, SIELE, Plan Curricular del Instituto Cervantes, Las competencias clave del profesorado  German: Goethe, DIA     level 2 The teacher guides the learner, under supervision, in acquiring subject matter and developing learning skills and digital literacy. In doing so, they take into account motivation and differentiated guidance. The teacher has up-to-date didactic knowledge and uses this to substantiate their actions. Views on learning and learning concepts A1 Intelligence and learning Educational concepts A2 Various educational concepts (also CLIL) The Brain and learning A3 Memory functioning, executive functioning, development of the brain Learning processes and motivation A4 Cognitive learning stategies, self-regulation strategies, learning needs/difficulties Guiding learning processes A5 Guidance in various learning contexts Productive strategies Knowledge on focus on langiage form Target language as learning tool 
    level 1 The teacher helps the learner, under supervision, to acquire subject matter and to develop learning skills and digital literacy. In doing so, they take  motivation into account. The teacher has some up-to-date didactic knowledge and applies it. Views on learning and learning concepts A1 Co-operative learning Learning processes and motivation A4 Types of knowledge, motivation theories, learning preferences, meaningful learning Guiding learning processes A5 Instructional strategies, using ICT for learning processes Receptive strategies Plurilingualism Target language as communication and learning tool Communicative activities 
I2 Organisation and participation level 3 The teacher shares responsibility, in collaboration with colleagues, for the functioning of the school organisation, shows initiative in organising school activities and independently organises their work and educational activities within the context of a learning arrangement.         level 2 The teacher participates in school activities, organises their own work and educational activities within the context of a lesson series and keeps to agreements.   Internationalisation     level 1 The teacher organises their own work and educational activities within the context of a lesson and keeps to agreements.     I3 Pedagogical climate level 3 The teacher, in consultation with colleagues, ensures a safe, stimulating pedagogical climate in the school and classroom. In doing so, they take into account diversity, equal educational opportunities, the educational needs of learners, and the care structure and coordination with carers of minors. The teacher makes an suitable choice from a broad, up-to-date pedagogical knowledge base and uses this to substantiate their actions.  Guiding learning processes A5 Action-oriented approach  School in the pluriform society B1 Parenting styles, parenting orientations and cultural influences  Pedagogical role of the school B2 School policy, vision and implementation (legal framework tailor-made education), social safety (anti-bullying protocol, types of anti-bullying programmes), relationship between school and the home (pedagogical triangle, parent participation in a broad context (differences between GSA and VE), duty of care)  Pedagogical climate in school and classroom B3 Intercultural communication, dealing with diversity (equal educational opportunities)  Student guidance B4 Guidance within the care structure     
    level 2 The teacher ensures, under supervision, a safe, stimulating pedagogical climate in the school and classroom. In doing so, they take into account at least the diversity and educational needs of the learners. The teacher has up-to-date pedagogical knowledge and uses this to substantiate their actions. Pedagogical climate in school and classroom B3 Dealing with diversity  Student guidance B4 Types and functions of guidance conversations  Developmental theories B5 Behavioral disorders and developmental disorders     
    level1 The teacher explores, under supervision, how to realise a safe, stimulating pedagogical climate in the classroom. In doing so, they take into account at least the positive and negative influences of the learner's behaviour, group dynamics and teacher behaviour. The teacher has some up-to-date pedagogical knowledge and applies it. Pedagogical role of the school B2 relationship between school and the home (influence of the environment on the student)  Pedagogical climate in school and classroom B3 Group dynamics, dealing with diversity (perception, stereotyping, labelling), safe and orderly learning climate (small disruptions)     
I4 Personal development and citizenship level 3 The teacher, in collaboration with colleagues, supports the personal development, citizenship development and career orientation of the learner. In doing so, they take into account the learner's experiential world and living environment and the context of the school and society. The teacher makes a suitable choice from a broad, up-to-date pedagogical knowledge base and uses this to substantiate their actions  Pedagogical role of the school B2 School policy, vision and implementation (citizenship development and personal development)  Student guidance B4 Principles of effective communication, conversational skills, guidance aimed at further studies   
    level 2 The teacher supports, under supervision, the personal development and citizenship development of the learner. In doing so, they take into account the learner's experiential world and living environment. The teacher has up-to-date pedagogical knowledge and uses this to substantiate their actions. Pedagogical climate in school and classroom B3 Intercultural communication, value-based education, dealing with diversity (cultural and sexual diversity)  Developmental theories B5 Moral and sexual development  Developments in education C1 Social developments    
    level 1 The teacher explores the learner's experiential world and living environment and the diversity therein in order to understand the learner's personal development. The teacher has some up-to-date pedagogical knowledge and applies it. School in the pluriform society B1 Experiential worlds of pupils and students  Student guidance B4 Principles of effective communication  Development theories B5 Identity development, social development (influence of the digital world)     
E Evaluation level 3 The teacher, in consultation with colleagues, uses appropriate forms of evaluation to monitor learning processes and adjust teaching. In doing so, they take into account learning development, behavioural development and personal development, formative evaluation, summative testing, legislation and regulations and testing policy, validity and reliability. The teacher makes a suitable choice from a broad, up-to-date methodological knowledge base and uses this to substantiate their actions. Testing and evaluating A8 Legal frameworks concerning examinations Communicative formative testing 
    level 2 The teacher uses appropriate forms of evaluation, under supervision, to monitor learning processes. In doing so, they take into account formative action, summative testing, validity and reliability. The teacher has up-to-date didactic knowledge and uses this to substantiate their actions. Testing and evaluating A8 Functions of tests, test development, test types, taxonomies, assessment and feedback, quality standards for testing Appropriate communicative test goals based on CEFR Communicative summative testing including (integration of) all (sub-)skills of Bloom's taxonomy     level 1 no level descriptor for level 1     
P1 Professionalisation level 3 The teacher reflects independently on their own actions and works consciously, in collaboration with colleagues, on further growth. In doing so, they take into account interdisciplinary collaboration, school development, national, international and intercultural perspectives and professional networks within and outside the school. Developments in education C1 Dutch eduactional system in international perspective  Working in the school organisation C2 Quality assurance at school, cooperation within teams  Personal professional development C3 Professional standard, professionalisation Principles of plurilingualism 
    level 2 The teacher reflects, under supervision, on their own actions and works consciously, in collaboration with colleagues, on further growth. In doing so, they take into account at least interdisciplinary collaboration and school development. Working in the school organisation C2  School culture and school organisation Interculturalism     level 1 The teacher reflects, under supervision, on their own actions and consciously works towards further growth in collaboration with others. Educational concepts A2 Different educational concepts  Developments in education C1 Dutch educational system, characteristics of Vocational Education /General Secondary Education Principles of communicative language teaching P2 Investigative ability level 3 The teacher has investigative ability and uses this proactively to improve educational practice. The teacher makes a critical choice to look up, find out or research missing practical knowledge. The teacher answers a research question in a methodical, systematic manner with a thoroughness appropriate to the context. The teacher makes insights gained accessible and usable for others in the professional context. Investigative ability C4 Function of research in own teaching practice: design-oriented research (focus on cyclical approach towards (re)design/arranging and evaluation of educational programmes, evaluative research (determine value of previously implemented educational practices)  
    level 2 The teacher has investigative ability and uses this, under supervision, to improve their own teaching practice. The teacher makes a critical choice to look up, find out or research missing practical knowledge. The teacher answers a research question in a methodical and systematic manner with a thoroughness appropriate to the context. The teacher shares the insights gained with those involved. Investigative ability C4 Applying knowledge from scientific research: evidence-informed conduct (using (international) educational research to select a suitable approach, while being able to make to critical comments)  Function of research in own teaching practice: research aimed at professional development / deepening, while focusing on insights and adapting one's own teaching practice (reflective practitioner)  Conducting practical research: researchable questions, drawing conclusions, processing results, code of conduct for research in practice at HBO  Information literacy: choosing suitable sources, selecting and assessing information (reliability, authenticity, validity)    
    level 1 The teacher uses aspects of their investigative ability, under supervision, to explore questions that further their own professional development. The teacher makes a critical choice to look up, find out or research missing practical knowledge. The teacher answers a research question in a methodical and systematic way. Investigative ability C4 Conducting practical research: problem analysis, research methods (qualitative and quantitative)  Information literacy: formulating search questions/search requests/key words, techniques to efficiently find information, rules regarding plagiarism and plagiarism prevention.   
P3 Professional identity level 3 The teacher shapes their professional actions based on their own vision of education and explains and justifies this. In doing so, the teacher takes into account the school's vision, moral dilemmas within the school's social context, international and intercultural perspectives, educational philosophy and the influence of the teacher's own underlying beliefs, norms and values. Professional identity C5 Personal vision on education, professional ethics, educational philosophy   
    level 2 The teacher researches and develops their own vision on education in dialogue with others. In doing so, they take into account the school's vision, moral dilemmas from their own educational practice, intercultural perspective and the influence of their own underlying beliefs, norms and values. Pedagogical role of the school B2 School policy, vision and implementation Developments in education C1 Social developments Professional identity C5 Professional ethics       level 1 The teacher examines the teaching profession in relation to their own standards and values and the influence of their own biography. In doing so, they take into account at least the experiences from their own teaching practice.      P4 Professional communication (MFL/TED) level 3 The student communicates in a goal-oriented and effective manner, both orally and in writing, in clear, correct Dutch at level 4F* and in the target language according to the standard(s) of the programme.  *The Dutch language criterion is not applicable to Teacher Education students    
    level 2 Regular MFL students: The student communicates orally and in writing in clear, correct Dutch at level 3F-4F.* Teacher Education students: The student communicates orally and in writing in the target language at the level specified by the programme.  *The Dutch language criterion is not applicable to Teacher Education students   
    level 1 Regular MFL students: The student communicates orally and in writing in clear, correct Dutch at level 3F. Teacher Education students: The student communicates orally and in writing in clear, correct Dutch at CEFR level A2.  Effective application of the target language 
 